# cost-of-cord-blood-banking
Cord Blood Transplants- Current Situation &amp; Future Prospects Explained!  Cord blood banking involves collecting, storing and preserving the blood left in the umbilical cord of a new born baby. It is to be known that cord blood and placenta contain lifesaving cells that are being used in the form of regenerative medicine globally.  For all those parents who has discovered that a new addition to the family is expected, it gets imperative to get registered for cord blood banking as this is the task that tops list of things to do in 2nd trimester. The sooner you register with a public or private bank, the more secure you would act as a parent safeguarding the health of your kid in years to come. As far as the cost of cord blood banking goes, it comes out to be around $2500 to $3000 as an initial fee in a private bank and more so parents need to pay $100 on annual basis as a storage charge. For all those who feel that the price tag is too high need to comprehend that this is an investment that would secure their child’s health and is hence all worth.  Cord Blood Transplants- A Basic Introduction At present, cord blood transplants are being used all across the world to treat serious health issues and fatal disorders including sickle cell anemia, leukemia, lymphoma, neuroblastma and immunity disorders. The cells present in the cord blood have been found highly effective in treating diseases that would else require a bone marrow transplant. With the first cord blood transfusion occurring back in 1988, till date thousands of serious transfusions have taken place, thus validating the rich properties of cord blood cells. One big reason why cord blood transplants are a huge hit is that the cells present in the umbilical cord tend to have a property of replacing other body cells. Once it is found that the cells of any type in the body have either become weak or have completely destroyed due to a medical condition, option of transplants could be sorted. With stem cells being utilized in medical therapies to treat both non-malignant and malignant disorders, going in for cord blood banking is something that all parents out there need to consider.  There are hundreds of private and public cord blood banks out there and parent need to evaluate the options closely before making the final pick. 
